Learning how to use/creat APIs

What is an API in simple terms?
Think of this scenario, you are in a restaurant 
You want created your own order and gave the RECIPE to the WAITER
The WAITER then goes to the KITCHEN to cook your food
The WAITER comes back with your ORDER

This analogy describes an API very well
The python script you wrote is person ordering
The RECIPE is the request you made
The WAITER is the API that helps communicate your order to the kitchen
We make a request to a web server, to retrieve a data we need


Why use an API?
	1.	API are use for dynamic data
	Data is always changing and to make sure your scripts are up to datamuse
	using an API will help that.
	2.	Want a small piece of a large data
	reddit comments are one example, we cant have all the data
	that will be too much. So we can use API to head to the correct
	endpoints and get only the data we need.

REST in a nutshell
what does REST API mean?
	REST is basically a set of useful conventions for structurring a web API
what is a web API?
	it just means you interact with an HTTP, making request to specific URLs and getting 
	relevant data in return. 
GET and POST
	GET is generally used to get information about some record that already exist
	often we will see this data in forms of 'JSON objects' which are very similar
	to dictionary in python
	sudo syntax: HTTP GET to the URL /tasks/
	
	POST is typically used when you want to create something.
	sudo syntax: HTTP POST to URL /tasks/

	as you can see we get and post to the same URL

other methods like 
PUT		modify an existing resource
DELETE	delete data 


Talking in REST
	 in many web services, we create RESTful API as this is a good format for passing
	and receiving data back.
	take note that JSON format is popular in API

	in order to do this in python, we need an excellent HTTP library called requests


what is a JSON data format?


Constructing an API library
	we need to make an API library if we will be using that service a lot
	the structure of the library depends on how API authenticates
	let us get to the basic structure first and worry about the authentication layer later

	To form on the  basic structure
	decide on the services it provides
	1. get a summary list of task that need be done with the API
	2. get more detailed information on a specifc task
	3. add mew task to our lists
	4. can mark task as done
	5. modify an existing tasks

	with this framework we can create our own internal API


 In a nutshell, the process of working with APIs is simple
 	1.Choose the API to work with
	2.Read the API documentation
	3.Start with small code, and complement it with more features.
 I know we started off as an absolute beginners guide 
 but gradually we built a complex program brick by brick. 
 Trust me, the possibilities around working with APIs are endless. 
 fully you can draw some inspiration from this blog 
 go slay them APIs.

Beginner level API
    Learning and appreciating the usefulness of API
	before we go ahead and start creating our own API
	we need to appreciate the use of it
	thus, we have a beginner section
	in the beginner section we will make use of available guides
	follow them and play aorund with them
	list of API used:
	1. datamuse
		query seach engine
	2. open-notify
		facts about space
	3. Find a fun one to follow and build your API  Knowledge upon


Interediate level API
	here we will no longer be reffering ot guide
	instead we will decide on API to use to create our own projects
	Think of fun ideas and programs to write and write them
	Here is the stage where we do more self-guidance
	list of project made and API used
	1. Telegram bot for random cats
	2. telegram API with authentication

Advance level 
	after being able to used API well and appreciating them
	we need to learn how to make API
	there is a lot of talk on RESTful API
	
